[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
charlie state and
naga manchester our headlines today stay
local rules
will lift in wales from tomorrow and
staycations are back on but only for
people living within its borders
and as europe rouse and wrangles over
the supply of vaccines we have an
exclusive we're inside the uk's
only facility which is guaranteeing us a
supply of these life-saving vials
lockdown has been a boost to the garden
economy i'll be finding out the top
trends for this year
good morning easy does it for england in
the world cup qualifiers ollie watkins
scores on his international debut in the
expected gold rush against san marino
a scotland fight back to draw with
austria but northern ireland
lose in italy
and the three brothers who wanted to say
thank you
to nhs hospital staff here in bristol
they've been cooking them a free
breakfast
for the last year
and weather-wise it's a pretty chilly
day today there may be some sunshine but
get ready for some heavy and thundery
showers i'll have you full forecast here
on breakfast
good morning it's friday the 26th of
march our top story this morning wales
will end its stay local rules from
tomorrow many people will be able to
travel within its borders without
restrictions
it's the first uk nation to allow travel
since lockdowns were reimposed with
tourist accommodation also given the
green light to reopen
hal griffith has more the coast is
calling after three months of
confinement
from tomorrow people across wales can
travel where they want
as long as they remain within its
borders
the final decision came last night i
think there's a
there's a mass confusion over when
people are opening and when they're not
opening
for paula it means she can reopen her
cabins
but with 96 of her customers normally
coming from england
there are still spaces she hopes the
bookings
will now come i think people have been
literally
locked into their homes and they just
want to get out
and they just want the freedom of
walking and just breathing in the fresh
air and see the sea
for now it's only welsh visitors who can
come
and enjoy the scenery tourism trips
across the border
aren't allowed with people in england
been told to stay local over these two
holidays
along the coast of porthow they still
expect to be
busy some of the residents are anxious
about crowds coming
very nervous it happened last year and
we couldn't even walk along the prom
there were so many people and
whilst i understand people wanting to
come out
it's daunting if you live here as well
the welsh government has called on
people to be
cautious as they take this next small
step
towards freedom joelle griffith bbc news
vaccine passports may only be introduced
once all
adults have been offered a job this
according to the prime minister boris
johnson says no decisions have been made
on the scheme which would require people
to prove they've been vaccinated before
visiting pubs and other venues but
promised an
update next month many business owners
have cast out on the idea saying it
would be difficult to implement
european commission president ursula van
der lion has said
astrazeneca must catch up with vaccines
delivers to the european union before
exporting doses to other countries
including the uk the warning came after
eu leaders met to discuss vaccine
supplies they blame astrazeneca for
delays to the rollout of the jab across
the eu saying the company failed to
deliver promised
doses john donaldson has more
with much of europe battling a third
wave of the virus
no eu leader wants to appear weak on
ensuring the eu receives its fair share
of vaccines
last night the president of the european
commission said the eu
had exported 21 million doses of the
astrazeneca vaccine to the uk
in the last four months and nothing had
come back in the other direction
i think it is clear for the company that
first of all the company has to catch up
has to honor uh the contract it has with
the european
member states before it can engage again
in exporting in exporting
vaccines but while the threat of an
export ban on vaccines is there
many eu countries are still reluctant to
enforce it in practice
and a statement issued after a marathon
video conference call between the 27 eu
leaders
stopped short of explicitly backing the
commission's call for export
restrictions
francis president emmanuel macron has
said he backs
export controls but the german
chancellor angela merkel
warned it was important to protect
global supply chains
good and almond concerns shared by the
leaders of the netherlands
belgium and ireland
and it's covid 19 cases continue to rise
across much of the continent
the tensions over vaccine supply are
unlikely to end here
john donason bbc news lori drivers
arriving in england may be required to
take a coveted test
if they're coming from mainland europe
drivers had previously been exempt for
testing but a haulage industry source
has told the bbc the government has
warned them to prepare for the change
the depart for transport says
it's carefully monitoring and increasing
cases in europe and would keep all
measures under review
the stranded container ship blocking the
suez canal could be stuck for weeks
despite efforts to free the vessel
the ever given has been stranded since
tuesday
after being blown off course by strong
winds it's holding
up around 7 billion pounds worth of
goods each day
and causing huge tailbacks of other
ships trying to pass through the
waterway
a teacher at a school in west yorkshire
has been suspended after showing a class
a cartoon of the prophet muhammed
parents protested outside batley grammar
school yesterday after the picture was
shown during a lesson
their teacher has since apologized the
government has said it was never
acceptable to
intimidate teachers
videos posted online show an angry
protest
outside a school in battley
who used an image of the prophet
muhammad during a school lesson
the teacher in question had been
suspended pending
an independent formal investigation
the school unequivocally apologizes for
using a totally inappropriate image
in a recent religious studies lesson it
should not have been used
the member of staff has also relayed
their more sincere apologies
showing the image has offended the
muslim community
batley grammar school is in a town with
a high number of
asian families according to a 2015
ofsted report three quarters of its
pupils
come from ethnic minorities people i've
spoken to outside the school
say they're shocked by what's happened
overall it's offensive whether it was
um it was like i said a family member a
friend a teacher it's offensive
the issue has been raised and flagged
and dealt with it should be laid to bed
now
the department of education has issued a
statement
urging parents not to protest and said
it is never acceptable to threaten or
intimidate teachers
they said schools are free to include a
full range of issues
ideas and material in their curriculum
including where they're challenging or
controversial
subject to their obligations to ensure
political balance
they must balance this with the need to
promote respect and tolerance between
people of different faiths and beliefs
community leaders here say although they
are hurt by what happened
they will continue to work closely to
resolve the issue
shabnam mahmoud bbc news badly
china has imposed sanctions on nine uk
citizens including five mps and two
peers for spreading what are called lies
and disinformation about the country
comes in retaliation for measures taken
by the uk government on monday after
human rights abuses
against the uyghur muslim minority group
the
former conservative party leader c in
duncan smith is one of those facing
[Music]
sanctions
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news